README.md, before:

# Cord

A coordination protocol for trees of coding agents.

One goal in, multiple agents out. They decompose, parallelize, wait on dependencies, and synthesize — all through a shared SQLite database.

## Demo

```
$ cord run "Build a competitive landscape report for fintech" --budget 5.0

cord run

  ● #1 [active] GOAL Build a competitive landscape report for fintech
    ✓ #2 [complete] TASK Identify top fintech competitors
      result: Task complete. JSON array with top 10 fintech companies...
    ✓ #3 [complete] TASK Research fintech industry trends
      result: Task complete. Compiled trends across regulatory, AI...
    ● #4 [active] TASK Deep competitive analysis
      needs: #2, #3
    ○ #5 [pending] TASK Write executive report
      needs: #4

  running: #1, #4
```

The root agent decided to split the work into 4 tasks. #2 and #3 ran in parallel. #4 needs results from both research tasks — their full results are injected into its prompt. #5 waits for #4. When everything completes, #1 relaunches to synthesize the final report.

No workflow was hardcoded. The agent built this tree at runtime.

## Prerequisites

- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (Python package manager)
- [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed and authenticated (`claude` command available) for `--runtime claude`
- [Codex CLI](https://developers.openai.com/codex/app-server/) installed and authenticated (`codex` command available) for `--runtime codex-app-server`
- [Amp CLI](https://ampcode.com/) installed and authenticated (`amp` command available) for `--runtime amp`
- An Anthropic API key with sufficient credits for `--runtime claude`
- OpenAI auth (ChatGPT login or API key) configured in Codex for `--runtime codex-app-server`

## Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kimjune01/cord.git
cd cord
uv sync
```

## Usage

```bash
# Give it a goal
cord run "Analyze the pros and cons of Rust vs Go for CLI tools"

# Or point it at a planning doc
cord run plan.md

# Control budget and model
cord run "goal" --budget 5.0 --model opus

# Select runtime explicitly
cord run "goal" --runtime codex-app-server --model gpt-5.2-codex
cord run "goal" --runtime claude --model opus
cord run "goal" --runtime amp

# Runtime shorthand flags
cord --codex run "goal"
cord --claude run "goal"
cord --amp run "goal"
```

**Options:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| `--budget` | 2.0 | Max USD per agent subprocess |
| `--model` | sonnet (`claude`), gpt-5.2-codex (`codex-app-server`), none (`amp`) | Model override for the selected runtime |
| `--runtime` | codex-app-server | Agent runtime (`codex-app-server`, `claude`, `amp`) |

`amp` runtime currently ignores `--model` and `--budget` overrides (warning is printed).

## How it works

```
You                    Engine                 Agents
 │                       │                      │
 │  cord run "goal"      │                      │
 │──────────────────────>│                      │
 │                       │  create root in DB   │
 │                       │  launch root agent   │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│
 │                       │                      │ create("#2", ...)
 │                       │                      │ create("#3", ...)
 │                       │                      │ complete("decomposed")
 │                       │<─────────────────────│
 │                       │                      │
 │                       │  #2 and #3 ready     │
 │                       │  launch both         │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│ (parallel)
 │                       │                      │ complete("result")
 │                       │<─────────────────────│
 │                       │                      │
 │                       │  all children done   │
 │                       │  relaunch #1 for     │
 │                       │  synthesis            │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│
 │                       │                      │ complete("final report")
 │  TUI: all ✓           │<─────────────────────│
 │<──────────────────────│                      │
```

Each agent gets MCP tools to coordinate:

| Tool | What it does |
|------|-------------|
| `create(goal, prompt, returns, needs)` | Create a child task |
| `complete(result)` | Mark yourself done with a result |
| `read_tree()` | See the full coordination tree |
| `read_node(node_id)` | See a single node's details |
| `ask(question, options)` | Request input |
| `stop(node_id)` | Cancel a node |
| `pause(node_id)` | Pause an active node |
| `resume(node_id)` | Resume a paused node |
| `modify(node_id, goal, prompt)` | Update a pending/paused node |

Agents don't know they're in a coordination tree. They see MCP tools and use them as needed. The protocol — dependency tracking, authority scoping, result injection — is enforced by the MCP server.

## Key concepts

**needs** — when creating a child task, list the node IDs whose results it depends on. The engine won't launch the child until all needed nodes complete. Their full results are injected into the child's prompt. This is the single context-engineering primitive: you choose which results flow to each child.

**Context rot** — if a child would need results from many nodes, create an intermediate task to synthesize them first. Each level of tree depth is a natural compression boundary. Prefer deeper trees over wide fan-ins.

**Two-phase execution** — an agent decomposes (creates children, calls `complete`). The engine waits for children. When all children finish, the engine relaunches the parent with a synthesis prompt that includes children's results.

**Authority** — agents can only create children under themselves and stop nodes in their own subtree. They can't touch siblings or ancestors.

## Project structure

```
src/cord/
    cli.py                  # cord run "goal"
    db.py                   # SQLite (CordDB class, WAL mode)
    prompts.py              # Prompt assembly for agents
    runtime/
        engine.py           # Main loop, TUI
        dispatcher.py       # Compatibility launch wrapper
        harness/            # Runtime adapter registry + implementations
        codex_app_server_worker.py  # JSON-RPC client for Codex App Server
        process_manager.py  # Track subprocesses
    mcp/
        server.py           # MCP tools (one server per agent)
```

~1020 lines of source. SQLite is the only dependency beyond the MCP library.

## Tests

```bash
uv run pytest tests/ -v   # 49 tests
```

## Experiments

[`experiments/behavior_compare.py`](experiments/behavior_compare.py) runs 8 behavioral tests against both Opus and Sonnet via Claude Code CLI, comparing how each model uses the Cord MCP tools. The earlier behavior tests (see [BEHAVIOR.md](BEHAVIOR.md)) were run against the v0.3 API which used separate `spawn`/`fork` primitives — these have since been unified into `create` with explicit `needs`.

The `pause`, `resume`, and `modify` tools were added because Claude independently tried to call them before they existed ([BEHAVIOR.md](BEHAVIOR.md) test 13). We built what the model already expected.

## Costs

Each agent subprocess has its own Claude API budget (set via `--budget`). A simple 2-node task costs ~$0.10. The demo fintech report (4 agents + synthesis) costs ~$2-4. Costs scale with the number of agents and their complexity.

## Limitations

- Single machine only. Agents are local processes.
- No web UI — terminal TUI only.
- No mid-execution message injection (pause/modify/resume requires relaunch).
- Each agent gets its own MCP server process (~200ms startup overhead).
- Runtime-specific CLI must be installed and authenticated (`codex`, `claude`, or `amp`).

## Alternative implementations

This repo is one implementation of the Cord protocol. The protocol itself — three core primitives (`goal`, `task`, `ask`) plus optional `serial` sequencing, dependency resolution, authority scoping, two-phase lifecycle — is independent of the backing store, transport, and agent runtime. You could implement Cord with Redis pub/sub, Postgres for multi-machine coordination, HTTP/SSE instead of stdio MCP, or non-Claude agents. See [RFC.md](RFC.md) for the full protocol specification.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Make runtime adapters first-class and add amp extra

README.md, after:

# Cord

A coordination protocol for trees of coding agents.

One goal in, multiple agents out. They decompose, parallelize, wait on dependencies, and synthesize — all through a shared SQLite database.

## Demo

```
$ cord run "Build a competitive landscape report for fintech" --budget 5.0

cord run

  ● #1 [active] GOAL Build a competitive landscape report for fintech
    ✓ #2 [complete] TASK Identify top fintech competitors
      result: Task complete. JSON array with top 10 fintech companies...
    ✓ #3 [complete] TASK Research fintech industry trends
      result: Task complete. Compiled trends across regulatory, AI...
    ● #4 [active] TASK Deep competitive analysis
      needs: #2, #3
    ○ #5 [pending] TASK Write executive report
      needs: #4

  running: #1, #4
```

The root agent decided to split the work into 4 tasks. #2 and #3 ran in parallel. #4 needs results from both research tasks — their full results are injected into its prompt. #5 waits for #4. When everything completes, #1 relaunches to synthesize the final report.

No workflow was hardcoded. The agent built this tree at runtime.

## Prerequisites

- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (Python package manager)
- [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed and authenticated (`claude` command available) for `--runtime claude`
- [Codex CLI](https://developers.openai.com/codex/app-server/) installed and authenticated (`codex` command available) for `--runtime codex-app-server`
- [Amp CLI](https://ampcode.com/) installed and authenticated (`amp` command available) for `--runtime amp`
- An Anthropic API key with sufficient credits for `--runtime claude`
- OpenAI auth (ChatGPT login or API key) configured in Codex for `--runtime codex-app-server`

## Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kimjune01/cord.git
cd cord
uv sync
# optional runtime extras
uv sync --extra amp
```

If published as a package, the same extra is available as `cord[amp]`.

## Usage

```bash
# Give it a goal
cord run "Analyze the pros and cons of Rust vs Go for CLI tools"

# Or point it at a planning doc
cord run plan.md

# Control budget and model
cord run "goal" --budget 5.0 --model opus

# Select runtime explicitly
cord run "goal" --runtime codex-app-server --model gpt-5.2-codex
cord run "goal" --runtime claude --model opus
cord run "goal" --runtime amp

# Runtime shorthand flags
cord --codex run "goal"
cord --claude run "goal"
cord --amp run "goal"
```

**Options:**

| Flag | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| `--budget` | 2.0 | Max USD per agent subprocess |
| `--model` | sonnet (`claude`), gpt-5.2-codex (`codex-app-server`), none (`amp`) | Model override for the selected runtime |
| `--runtime` | codex-app-server | Agent runtime (`codex-app-server`, `claude`, `amp`) |

`amp` runtime currently ignores `--model` and `--budget` overrides (warning is printed).

## How it works

```
You                    Engine                 Agents
 │                       │                      │
 │  cord run "goal"      │                      │
 │──────────────────────>│                      │
 │                       │  create root in DB   │
 │                       │  launch root agent   │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│
 │                       │                      │ create("#2", ...)
 │                       │                      │ create("#3", ...)
 │                       │                      │ complete("decomposed")
 │                       │<─────────────────────│
 │                       │                      │
 │                       │  #2 and #3 ready     │
 │                       │  launch both         │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│ (parallel)
 │                       │                      │ complete("result")
 │                       │<─────────────────────│
 │                       │                      │
 │                       │  all children done   │
 │                       │  relaunch #1 for     │
 │                       │  synthesis            │
 │                       │─────────────────────>│
 │                       │                      │ complete("final report")
 │  TUI: all ✓           │<─────────────────────│
 │<──────────────────────│                      │
```

Each agent gets MCP tools to coordinate:

| Tool | What it does |
|------|-------------|
| `create(goal, prompt, returns, needs)` | Create a child task |
| `complete(result)` | Mark yourself done with a result |
| `read_tree()` | See the full coordination tree |
| `read_node(node_id)` | See a single node's details |
| `ask(question, options)` | Request input |
| `stop(node_id)` | Cancel a node |
| `pause(node_id)` | Pause an active node |
| `resume(node_id)` | Resume a paused node |
| `modify(node_id, goal, prompt)` | Update a pending/paused node |

Agents don't know they're in a coordination tree. They see MCP tools and use them as needed. The protocol — dependency tracking, authority scoping, result injection — is enforced by the MCP server.

## Key concepts

**needs** — when creating a child task, list the node IDs whose results it depends on. The engine won't launch the child until all needed nodes complete. Their full results are injected into the child's prompt. This is the single context-engineering primitive: you choose which results flow to each child.

**Context rot** — if a child would need results from many nodes, create an intermediate task to synthesize them first. Each level of tree depth is a natural compression boundary. Prefer deeper trees over wide fan-ins.

**Two-phase execution** — an agent decomposes (creates children, calls `complete`). The engine waits for children. When all children finish, the engine relaunches the parent with a synthesis prompt that includes children's results.

**Authority** — agents can only create children under themselves and stop nodes in their own subtree. They can't touch siblings or ancestors.

## Project structure

```
src/cord/
    cli.py                  # cord run "goal"
    db.py                   # SQLite (CordDB class, WAL mode)
    prompts.py              # Prompt assembly for agents
    runtime/
        engine.py           # Main loop, TUI
        harness/            # Runtime adapter registry + implementations
        codex_app_server_worker.py  # JSON-RPC client for Codex App Server
        process_manager.py  # Track subprocesses
    mcp/
        server.py           # MCP tools (one server per agent)
```

~1020 lines of source. SQLite is the only dependency beyond the MCP library.

## Tests

```bash
uv run pytest tests/ -v   # 49 tests
```

## Experiments

[`experiments/behavior_compare.py`](experiments/behavior_compare.py) runs 8 behavioral tests against both Opus and Sonnet via Claude Code CLI, comparing how each model uses the Cord MCP tools. The earlier behavior tests (see [BEHAVIOR.md](BEHAVIOR.md)) were run against the v0.3 API which used separate `spawn`/`fork` primitives — these have since been unified into `create` with explicit `needs`.

The `pause`, `resume`, and `modify` tools were added because Claude independently tried to call them before they existed ([BEHAVIOR.md](BEHAVIOR.md) test 13). We built what the model already expected.

## Costs

Each agent subprocess has its own Claude API budget (set via `--budget`). A simple 2-node task costs ~$0.10. The demo fintech report (4 agents + synthesis) costs ~$2-4. Costs scale with the number of agents and their complexity.

## Limitations

- Single machine only. Agents are local processes.
- No web UI — terminal TUI only.
- No mid-execution message injection (pause/modify/resume requires relaunch).
- Each agent gets its own MCP server process (~200ms startup overhead).
- Runtime-specific CLI must be installed and authenticated (`codex`, `claude`, or `amp`).

## Alternative implementations

This repo is one implementation of the Cord protocol. The protocol itself — three core primitives (`goal`, `task`, `ask`) plus optional `serial` sequencing, dependency resolution, authority scoping, two-phase lifecycle — is independent of the backing store, transport, and agent runtime. You could implement Cord with Redis pub/sub, Postgres for multi-machine coordination, HTTP/SSE instead of stdio MCP, or non-Claude agents. See [RFC.md](RFC.md) for the full protocol specification.

## License

MIT
